---
layout: post
title: Ponpare.jp analytics intro (Series)
tags: marketing analytics
---
This is a first blog post of this marketing analytics series on a coupon e-commerce website (ponpare.jp). 

Based on a year of transactional data published by a coupon e-commerce website (ponpare.jp) for this [Kaggle contest](https://www.kaggle.com/c/coupon-purchase-prediction/data), I plan to share some of the interesting marketing insights and trends in this series of blog posts. This blog posting covers a basic description of data background. In subsequent postings, I will cover topics such as product category specific patterns, customer classification through dimensionality reduction, retrospective A/B testing based on customer visits and purchases.

####Brief Introduction of Data:

There are 5 main files which contain each user profile info, visit logs, transaction data and each coupon info.
Some of these are divided between a training set and a test set for validation purposes as the goal of the Kaggle contest is making predictions. Depending on the type of analysis, I will clarify if I will be using one or both.

- Total # of users (User List): 22,873 
- Training set: 2011-07-01 to 2012-06-23
- Test set: 2012-06-24 to 2012-06-30 

####Structure of Files:

The variables represented below are simplified to show the basic characteristic of the dataset and relationships between each file. 

1. User List (by each User_ID)
    - User_ID
    - Sex
    - Gender
    - etc
2. Coupon Visit (visit log, shows each visit by a user for any coupon)
    - User_ID
    - Coupon_ID
    - Purchased? (1 or 0)
    - etc
3. Coupon Detail (by each transaction)
    - User_ID
    - Coupon_ID
    - Purchase_ID
    - etc
4. Coupon List
    - Coupon_ID
    - Category name
    - etc
5. Coupon Area (area in Japan where the coupon is listed)


####Index of this Series:

- Intro (this post)
- Uncovering User Data
- Purchasing patterns

